03. JavaScript/1. ECMAScript (ES)/08. Operators/1. Operators.md, before:

# JavaScript Operators (Unary, Binary, Ternary)

Operators are symbols that perform operations on values (operands). JavaScript operators are classified by the number of operands they take.

| Type    | Arity      | Examples                    |
| ------- | ---------- | --------------------------- |
| Unary   | 1 operand  | `!x`, `typeof x`, `++x`     |
| Binary  | 2 operands | `a + b`, `a && b`, `a ?? b` |
| Ternary | 3 parts    | `cond ? x : y`              |

> **Note:** Spread (`...x`) and Rest (`...x`) are **syntax**, not operators. See [4. Spread and Rest Operators](./4.%20Spread%20and%20Rest%20Operators.md) for details.

> 📖 **For operator precedence:** See [2. Operators Precedence](./2.%20Operators%20Precedence.md)

> 📖 **For type coercion:** See [3. Coercion](./3.%20Coercion.md)

---

## 🔹 1. Binary Operators

Operate on **two operands**.

### ✔ Arithmetic Operators

- `+` Addition (also string concatenation)
- `-` Subtraction
- `*` Multiplication
- `/` Division
- `%` Modulus (Remainder)
- `**` Exponentiation

**Precedence Order:**

1. `**` (right-to-left associativity)
2. `*`, `/`, `%` (left-to-right)
3. `+`, `-` (left-to-right)

> ⚠️ Note: `++` and `--` are **unary**, not binary.

---

### ✔ Assignment Operators

- `=` Assignment
- `+=` Addition assignment
- `-=` Subtraction assignment
- `*=` Multiplication assignment
- `/=` Division assignment
- `%=` Modulus assignment
- `**=` Exponentiation assignment

**Behavior:**

- `+=` concatenates if either operand is a string
- Others convert operands to numbers

**Modern Assignment Operators:**

- `&&=` Logical AND assignment
- `||=` Logical OR assignment
- `??=` Nullish coalescing assignment

---

### ✔ Comparison Operators

Compare values and return `true` or `false`.

**Equality Operators:**

- `==` Loose equality (performs coercion)
- `!=` Loose inequality
- `===` Strict equality (no coercion)
- `!==` Strict inequality

**Relational Operators:**

- `>` Greater than
- `<` Less than
- `>=` Greater than or equal
- `<=` Less than or equal

**Behavior:**

- `==` performs type coercion before comparison
- `===` does not perform coercion (strict comparison)
- All comparison operators have the same precedence and are left-to-right associative

---

### ✔ Logical Operators

Return values (not just `true`/`false`) and use short-circuiting.

#### `&&` — Logical AND

- Returns the **first falsy operand**, or the **last operand** if all are truthy
- Short-circuits: stops evaluating when it finds a falsy value

**Memorize:**

- Looks for the first falsy from left to right
- Returns first operand if it's falsy
- Returns second operand if first is truthy

```js
true && "JS"; // → 'JS'
false && "JS"; // → false
0 && "hello"; // → 0
"hi" && 123; // → 123
```

#### `||` — Logical OR

- Returns the **first truthy operand**, or the **last operand** if all are falsy
- Short-circuits: stops evaluating when it finds a truthy value

**Memorize:**

- Looks for the first truthy from left to right
- Returns first operand if it's truthy
- Returns second operand if first is falsy

```js
false || "default"; // → 'default'
0 || null || "JS"; // → 'JS'
"hi" || "hello"; // → 'hi'
```

#### `!` — Logical NOT

- **Unary operator** (not binary)
- Negates the truthiness of a value
- Always returns a boolean

```js
!true; // → false
!0; // → true
!!"hi"; // → true (double negation converts to boolean)
```

---

### ✔ Nullish Coalescing (`??`)

Returns the right-hand operand **only if** the left operand is `null` or `undefined`.

**Key Points:**

- Does **not** consider `0`, `false`, `''` as nullish
- Lower precedence than `&&` and `||`
- Useful for providing default values

```js
null ?? "default"; // → 'default'
undefined ?? "fallback"; // → 'fallback'
0 ?? 42; // → 0 (because 0 is not nullish)
false ?? "yes"; // → false
"" ?? "default"; // → "" (empty string is not nullish)
```

---

### ✔ Bitwise Operators

Perform operations on binary representations of numbers.

**Bitwise Logical:**

- `&` Bitwise AND
- `|` Bitwise OR
- `^` Bitwise XOR

**Bitwise Shift:**

- `<<` Left shift
- `>>` Right shift (sign-propagating)
- `>>>` Right shift (zero-fill)

> ⚠️ `~` (Bitwise NOT) is **unary**, not binary.

**Note:** Bitwise operators convert operands to 32-bit integers before operation.

---

### ✔ String Operator

- `+` String concatenation (when used with strings)

**Behavior:**

- If either operand is a string, `+` performs concatenation
- Otherwise, performs numeric addition

```js
"Hello" + 5; // → "Hello5"
"5" + 3; // → "53"
5 + 3; // → 8
```

---

## 🔹 2. Unary Operators

Operate on **one operand**.

### Complete List

| Operator | Example          | Meaning                    |
| -------- | ---------------- | -------------------------- |
| `!`      | `!x`             | Logical NOT                |
| `typeof` | `typeof x`       | Type inspection            |
| `void`   | `void x`         | Always returns `undefined` |
| `delete` | `delete obj.key` | Removes property           |
| `+`      | `+x`             | Converts to number         |
| `-`      | `-x`             | Negates number             |
| `~`      | `~x`             | Bitwise NOT                |
| `++`     | `++i` / `i++`    | Increment                  |
| `--`     | `--i` / `i--`    | Decrement                  |

### Prefix vs Postfix

Unary operators may appear **prefix** (before operand) or **postfix** (after operand):

```js
let i = 5;

// Prefix: increments/decrements first, then uses value
++i; // i becomes 6, returns 6
--i; // i becomes 5, returns 5

// Postfix: uses value first, then increments/decrements
i++; // returns 5, then i becomes 6
i--; // returns 6, then i becomes 5
```

**Note:** `++` and `--` are the only operators that can be both prefix and postfix.

---

## 🔹 3. Ternary (Conditional) Operator

The only ternary operator in JavaScript. Shorthand for `if/else`.

**Syntax:**

```js
condition ? valueIfTrue : valueIfFalse;
```

**Behavior:**

- Evaluates the condition (converts to boolean)
- Returns `valueIfTrue` if condition is truthy
- Returns `valueIfFalse` if condition is falsy
- Only the selected expression is evaluated (short-circuiting)

**Examples:**

```js
let age = 20;
let status = age >= 18 ? "adult" : "minor"; // → "adult"

let x = 5;
let result = x > 0 ? x * 2 : 0; // → 10
```

**Nested Ternary:**

```js
let score = 85;
let grade = score >= 90 ? "A" : score >= 80 ? "B" : score >= 70 ? "C" : "F";
// → "B"
```

> ⚠️ **Note:** Nested ternaries can be hard to read. Consider using `if/else` for complex conditions.

---

## 🔹 4. Optional Chaining (`?.`)

**Syntax:** `obj?.prop` or `func?.()`

**Behavior:**

- Checks if a property or function exists before accessing/invoking
- Returns `undefined` if the left-hand side is `null` or `undefined`
- Prevents `TypeError` from accessing properties of `null`/`undefined`

**Examples:**

```js
let user = {};
let name = user?.name ?? "unknown"; // → "unknown"

let obj = null;
obj?.property; // → undefined (no error)

let func = null;
func?.(); // → undefined (no error)
```

**Chaining:**

```js
let user = { address: { city: "NYC" } };
user?.address?.city; // → "NYC"

let user2 = null;
user2?.address?.city; // → undefined (no error)
```

---

## Summary

### Operator Types

| Type    | Operand Count | Example                 |
| ------- | ------------- | ----------------------- |
| Unary   | 1             | `!x`, `++x`, `typeof x` |
| Binary  | 2             | `a + b`, `x ?? y`       |
| Ternary | 3             | `cond ? x : y`          |

### Key Concepts

1. **Short-circuiting**: Logical operators (`&&`, `||`) stop evaluating when the result is determined
2. **Type coercion**: Some operators (`==`, `+` with strings) perform type conversion
3. **Precedence**: Determines evaluation order (see [2. Operators Precedence](./2.%20Operators%20Precedence.md))
4. **Associativity**: Determines evaluation direction when precedence is equal
5. **Return values**: Logical operators return values, not just booleans

### Important Notes

- Spread and Rest (`...`) are **syntax**, not operators
- `++` and `--` are **unary**, not binary
- `!` is **unary**, not binary
- `~` is **unary**, not binary
- `?.` (Optional Chaining) is a **syntax construct**, not a traditional operator

---

> 📖 **Related Topics:**
>
> - [2. Operators Precedence](./2.%20Operators%20Precedence.md) - Complete precedence table and evaluation order
> - [3. Coercion](./3.%20Coercion.md) - How operators handle type coercion
> - [4. Spread and Rest Operators](./4.%20Spread%20and%20Rest%20Operators.md) - Spread and Rest syntax (not operators)

Commit message:

Consolidate type conversion/coercion content and expand Parameter Passing docs
- Reorganize Operators folder: Rename '3. Coercion.md' to '3. Operator Coercion.md' with operator-specific focus
- Add references from Operators to comprehensive Type Conversion folder
- Expand Parameter Passing folder: Add 7 new detailed files covering pass by value/reference, patterns, interview questions, and best practices
- Expand Error Handling & Debugging: Add production error handling, built-in error types, global handlers, and interview questions
- Remove duplicate content across Operators, Type Conversion, and Data Types folders
- Clean up file structure and improve cross-references

03. JavaScript/1. ECMAScript (ES)/08. Operators/1. Operators.md, after:

# JavaScript Operators (Unary, Binary, Ternary)

Operators are symbols that perform operations on values (operands). JavaScript operators are classified by the number of operands they take.

| Type    | Arity      | Examples                    |
| ------- | ---------- | --------------------------- |
| Unary   | 1 operand  | `!x`, `typeof x`, `++x`     |
| Binary  | 2 operands | `a + b`, `a && b`, `a ?? b` |
| Ternary | 3 parts    | `cond ? x : y`              |

> **Note:** Spread (`...x`) and Rest (`...x`) are **syntax**, not operators. See [4. Spread and Rest Operators](./4.%20Spread%20and%20Rest%20Operators.md) for details.

> 📖 **For operator precedence:** See [2. Operators Precedence](./2.%20Operators%20Precedence.md)

> 📖 **For operator coercion:** See [3. Operator Coercion](./3.%20Operator%20Coercion.md)
> 📖 **For comprehensive type conversion:** See [09. Type Conversion and Coercion/](../09.%20Type%20Conversion%20and%20Coercion/)

---

## 🔹 1. Binary Operators

Operate on **two operands**.

### ✔ Arithmetic Operators

- `+` Addition (also string concatenation)
- `-` Subtraction
- `*` Multiplication
- `/` Division
- `%` Modulus (Remainder)
- `**` Exponentiation

**Precedence Order:**

1. `**` (right-to-left associativity)
2. `*`, `/`, `%` (left-to-right)
3. `+`, `-` (left-to-right)

> ⚠️ Note: `++` and `--` are **unary**, not binary.

---

### ✔ Assignment Operators

- `=` Assignment
- `+=` Addition assignment
- `-=` Subtraction assignment
- `*=` Multiplication assignment
- `/=` Division assignment
- `%=` Modulus assignment
- `**=` Exponentiation assignment

**Behavior:**

- `+=` concatenates if either operand is a string
- Others convert operands to numbers

**Modern Assignment Operators:**

- `&&=` Logical AND assignment
- `||=` Logical OR assignment
- `??=` Nullish coalescing assignment

---

### ✔ Comparison Operators

Compare values and return `true` or `false`.

**Equality Operators:**

- `==` Loose equality (performs coercion)
- `!=` Loose inequality
- `===` Strict equality (no coercion)
- `!==` Strict inequality

**Relational Operators:**

- `>` Greater than
- `<` Less than
- `>=` Greater than or equal
- `<=` Less than or equal

**Behavior:**

- `==` performs type coercion before comparison
- `===` does not perform coercion (strict comparison)
- All comparison operators have the same precedence and are left-to-right associative

---

### ✔ Logical Operators

Return values (not just `true`/`false`) and use short-circuiting.

#### `&&` — Logical AND

- Returns the **first falsy operand**, or the **last operand** if all are truthy
- Short-circuits: stops evaluating when it finds a falsy value

**Memorize:**

- Looks for the first falsy from left to right
- Returns first operand if it's falsy
- Returns second operand if first is truthy

```js
true && "JS"; // → 'JS'
false && "JS"; // → false
0 && "hello"; // → 0
"hi" && 123; // → 123
```

#### `||` — Logical OR

- Returns the **first truthy operand**, or the **last operand** if all are falsy
- Short-circuits: stops evaluating when it finds a truthy value

**Memorize:**

- Looks for the first truthy from left to right
- Returns first operand if it's truthy
- Returns second operand if first is falsy

```js
false || "default"; // → 'default'
0 || null || "JS"; // → 'JS'
"hi" || "hello"; // → 'hi'
```

#### `!` — Logical NOT

- **Unary operator** (not binary)
- Negates the truthiness of a value
- Always returns a boolean

```js
!true; // → false
!0; // → true
!!"hi"; // → true (double negation converts to boolean)
```

---

### ✔ Nullish Coalescing (`??`)

Returns the right-hand operand **only if** the left operand is `null` or `undefined`.

**Key Points:**

- Does **not** consider `0`, `false`, `''` as nullish
- Lower precedence than `&&` and `||`
- Useful for providing default values

```js
null ?? "default"; // → 'default'
undefined ?? "fallback"; // → 'fallback'
0 ?? 42; // → 0 (because 0 is not nullish)
false ?? "yes"; // → false
"" ?? "default"; // → "" (empty string is not nullish)
```

---

### ✔ Bitwise Operators

Perform operations on binary representations of numbers.

**Bitwise Logical:**

- `&` Bitwise AND
- `|` Bitwise OR
- `^` Bitwise XOR

**Bitwise Shift:**

- `<<` Left shift
- `>>` Right shift (sign-propagating)
- `>>>` Right shift (zero-fill)

> ⚠️ `~` (Bitwise NOT) is **unary**, not binary.

**Note:** Bitwise operators convert operands to 32-bit integers before operation.

---

### ✔ String Operator

- `+` String concatenation (when used with strings)

**Behavior:**

- If either operand is a string, `+` performs concatenation
- Otherwise, performs numeric addition

```js
"Hello" + 5; // → "Hello5"
"5" + 3; // → "53"
5 + 3; // → 8
```

---

## 🔹 2. Unary Operators

Operate on **one operand**.

### Complete List

| Operator | Example          | Meaning                    |
| -------- | ---------------- | -------------------------- |
| `!`      | `!x`             | Logical NOT                |
| `typeof` | `typeof x`       | Type inspection            |
| `void`   | `void x`         | Always returns `undefined` |
| `delete` | `delete obj.key` | Removes property           |
| `+`      | `+x`             | Converts to number         |
| `-`      | `-x`             | Negates number             |
| `~`      | `~x`             | Bitwise NOT                |
| `++`     | `++i` / `i++`    | Increment                  |
| `--`     | `--i` / `i--`    | Decrement                  |

### Prefix vs Postfix

Unary operators may appear **prefix** (before operand) or **postfix** (after operand):

```js
let i = 5;

// Prefix: increments/decrements first, then uses value
++i; // i becomes 6, returns 6
--i; // i becomes 5, returns 5

// Postfix: uses value first, then increments/decrements
i++; // returns 5, then i becomes 6
i--; // returns 6, then i becomes 5
```

**Note:** `++` and `--` are the only operators that can be both prefix and postfix.

---

## 🔹 3. Ternary (Conditional) Operator

The only ternary operator in JavaScript. Shorthand for `if/else`.

**Syntax:**

```js
condition ? valueIfTrue : valueIfFalse;
```

**Behavior:**

- Evaluates the condition (converts to boolean)
- Returns `valueIfTrue` if condition is truthy
- Returns `valueIfFalse` if condition is falsy
- Only the selected expression is evaluated (short-circuiting)

**Examples:**

```js
let age = 20;
let status = age >= 18 ? "adult" : "minor"; // → "adult"

let x = 5;
let result = x > 0 ? x * 2 : 0; // → 10
```

**Nested Ternary:**

```js
let score = 85;
let grade = score >= 90 ? "A" : score >= 80 ? "B" : score >= 70 ? "C" : "F";
// → "B"
```

> ⚠️ **Note:** Nested ternaries can be hard to read. Consider using `if/else` for complex conditions.

---

## 🔹 4. Optional Chaining (`?.`)

**Syntax:** `obj?.prop` or `func?.()`

**Behavior:**

- Checks if a property or function exists before accessing/invoking
- Returns `undefined` if the left-hand side is `null` or `undefined`
- Prevents `TypeError` from accessing properties of `null`/`undefined`

**Examples:**

```js
let user = {};
let name = user?.name ?? "unknown"; // → "unknown"

let obj = null;
obj?.property; // → undefined (no error)

let func = null;
func?.(); // → undefined (no error)
```

**Chaining:**

```js
let user = { address: { city: "NYC" } };
user?.address?.city; // → "NYC"

let user2 = null;
user2?.address?.city; // → undefined (no error)
```

---

## Summary

### Operator Types

| Type    | Operand Count | Example                 |
| ------- | ------------- | ----------------------- |
| Unary   | 1             | `!x`, `++x`, `typeof x` |
| Binary  | 2             | `a + b`, `x ?? y`       |
| Ternary | 3             | `cond ? x : y`          |

### Key Concepts

1. **Short-circuiting**: Logical operators (`&&`, `||`) stop evaluating when the result is determined
2. **Type coercion**: Some operators (`==`, `+` with strings) perform type conversion
3. **Precedence**: Determines evaluation order (see [2. Operators Precedence](./2.%20Operators%20Precedence.md))
4. **Associativity**: Determines evaluation direction when precedence is equal
5. **Return values**: Logical operators return values, not just booleans

### Important Notes

- Spread and Rest (`...`) are **syntax**, not operators
- `++` and `--` are **unary**, not binary
- `!` is **unary**, not binary
- `~` is **unary**, not binary
- `?.` (Optional Chaining) is a **syntax construct**, not a traditional operator

---

> 📖 **Related Topics:**
>
> - [2. Operators Precedence](./2.%20Operators%20Precedence.md) - Complete precedence table and evaluation order
> - [3. Coercion](./3.%20Coercion.md) - How operators handle type coercion
> - [4. Spread and Rest Operators](./4.%20Spread%20and%20Rest%20Operators.md) - Spread and Rest syntax (not operators)
