# Constructor.prototype

The constructor function creates the object, and `Constructor.prototype` provides the shared blueprint (methods and inherited properties) for all instances.
The new operator creates the object and sets up its prototype linkage. The constructor function is then executed to initialize that object.

When you write:

```js
function exampleFun() {}
```

Two things exist:

1. The constructor function (Person)
2. The prototype object (Person.prototype)

- `Constructor.prototype` is an object that becomes the prototype of instances created by that constructor.
- When you create a function:

  ```js
  function Person() {}
  ```

  JavaScript automatically creates:

  ```js
  Person.prototype;
  ```

  This is just a normal object.

  Its purpose is to become the prototype of objects created using new Person().

## Who Is the Blueprint, the Constructor function itself or the Constructor.prototype

✅ The constructor function is responsible for creating and initializing the object
When you do:

```js
const p1 = new Person("Nishant");
```

JavaScript does internally:

- Create a new empty object
- Link it to Person.prototype
- Call Person with this pointing to that object
- Return the object

So:
The constructor function creates and initializes.

✅ Constructor.prototype is the blueprint for shared behavior.

If you add:

```js
Person.prototype.greet = function () {
  console.log("Hello " + this.name);
};
```

Then all instances share that method via prototype chain.

So:
Constructor.prototype acts as a blueprint for shared methods and properties.
