# Form Controls

## Only 4 types of "form controls" exists, rest are input type variants

1. <input>
2. <textarea>
3. <select>
4. <button>

Everything else (label, form, fieldset) supports them but is not a control itself

## List of Not form controls

1. <form> (container, not a control but important, wraps all controls)
2. <fieldset> (used for grouping related controls)
3. <legend> (used for grouping related controls)
4. <label> (Associates text with inputs)
5. <datalist>
6. <output>
7. <meter>
8. <progress>

## Form Fields

A form field is a logical unit of data input, which usually includes:

1. A label
2. A form control
3. Optional help text/validation message

Examples:

<label for="email">Email</label>
<input id="email" type="email">
<span>Please enter a valid email</span>

Here, in the above example the entire block is one form field, while <input> is the form control

**form field = complete input section (UI + logic)**

## List of all form controls

1. <input> (most important)
   1. password
   2. text
   3. email
   4. number
   5. **checkbox** - "supports multi options"
   6. radio
   7. **file** - "Always uncontrolled"
   8. date
   9. datetime-local
   10. time
   11. month
   12. week
   13. color
   14. range
   15. search
   16. tel
   17. url
   18. hidden
   19. submit
   20. reset
   21. button
2. <textarea>
3. **<select> and <select multi>** (Dropdown)
4. <button>

Note:

<input type="file"> cannot be a controlled component.
Even in a fully controlled React form, file inputs must remain uncontrolled, and you always rely on onChange + files (and sometimes ref).

This is not a React design choice — it is a browser-enforced security rule.

## Form controls vs form field

- Form Controls = elements that accept input
- Form Controls refers to the actual form element, not the React component.
- Form controls are the actual interactive HTML elements that allow users to input or manipulate data.

Examples:

<input /> (text, checkbox, radio)
<textarea>
<select>
<button>

These are the native DOM elements that handle user interaction.

**controls = elements that control or capture input**

**FAQ**

Q: If a component has only input + handler, is the whole component a form control?

A: **No**
Only the input element inside it is the form control.

The component is just encapsulating and managing that form control.

---
