# Form Controls

## Form controls vs form field

Form controls are the actual interactive HTML elements that allow users to input or manipulate data.

retrieve values using event.target.checked

Form Control refers to the actual form element, not the React component.

Examples:

<input /> (text, checkbox, radio)
<textarea>
<select>
<button>

These are the native DOM elements that handle user interaction.

**controls = elements that control or capture input**

---

**FAQ**

Q: If a component has only input + handler, is the whole component a form control?

A: **No**
Only the input element inside it is the form control.

The component is just encapsulating and managing that form control.

---

## Form Fields

A form field is a logical unit of data input, which usually includes:

1. A label
2. A form control
3. Optional help text/validation message

Examples:

<label for="email">Email</label>
<input id="email" type="email">
<span>Please enter a valid email</span>

Here, in the above example the entire block is one form field, while <input> is the form control

**form field = complete input section (UI + logic)**

## List of all form controls

1. <input> (most important)

Supports multiple types:

1. password
1. text
1. email
1. number
1. **checkbox** - "supports multi options"
1. radio
1. **file** - "Always uncontrolled"
1. date
1. datetime-local
1. time
1. month
1. week
1. color
1. range
1. search
1. tel
1. url
1. hidden
1. submit
1. reset
1. button

1. <textarea>
1. **<select> and <select multi>** (Dropdown)
1. <button>

Note:

<input type="file"> cannot be a controlled component.
Even in a fully controlled React form, file inputs must remain uncontrolled, and you always rely on onChange + files (and sometimes ref).

This is not a React design choice — it is a browser-enforced security rule.

## List Not form controls

1. <form> (container, not a control but important, wraps all controls)
2. <fieldset> (used for grouping related controls)
3. <legend> (used for grouping related controls)
4. <label> (Associates text with inputs)

## Important Conclusion

Only these are real "form controls"

Strictly speaking, form controls = elements that accept input

1. <input>
2. <textarea>
3. <select>
4. <button>

Everything else (label, form, fieldset) supports them but is not a control itself
